# How to prepare for coding interviews

Interviews are games. Companies structure their interviews to minimize false
positives, because it's far more expensive to hire a low quality candidate than
to wrongly reject a high quality candidate. Larger companies tend towards phone
screens and face-to-face interviews on whiteboards on topics like balanced
search trees, string searching, and tries. Smaller companies tend towards having
a coffee or a drink to evaluate "cultural fit" and pair programming exercises on
small concrete projects. Either way the interview process is a game: completely
artificial and with arbitrary rules and obstacles that you wouldn't encounter in
a real day-job setting.

Think about how to become proficient in any skill-based field: sports, physical
fitness, or high school mathematics. How do you acquire skills and excel at
them? **Repetition with feedback**.

-   **Repetition**: Yes, the taxi driver was right, the way to Carnigie Hall is
    indeed through practice, practice, practice. However, mechanically repeating
    something, or not attempting to reproduce it as close to its real-life usage
    as possible, reduces the efficacy of the repetition.
    -   When training at the gym, compound multi-muscle exercises like squats,
        deadlifts, and bench presses are far more useful for improving body
        strength than machine-aided focused exercises like curls and calf
        raises.
    -   When running on a treadmill eventually you need to set the incline to at
        least 1.5%, or else when you start running outside you will not have
        trained to take air resistance into account when you transition to
        running outdoors.
    -   When preparing for coding interviews you must mimic as precisely as
        possible the circumstances you expected to be interviewed under. Will
        you use an online collaborative editor during a phone screen? Then
        prepare using the same editor. Will you use a whiteboard during face-to-
        face interviews, or will you pair program on a small project? Whichever
        it is you must prepare by doing precisely that. More details are below.
-   **Feedback**: Blind repetition does not guarantee you will improve your skills.
    -   For example, when you weight lift you steadily increase the load weights
        in order to trigger hypertrophy, i.e. muscle mass growth.
    -   When you are preparing for a marathon you stedily increase either the
        duration of your runs, your speed, or your training frequency, steadily
        getting closer to simulating an actual marathon.
    -   Simply attempting to solve a series of coding problems, or even worse
        just reading those problems, will not improve your interviewing skills
        over time. After every session pause then mentally debrief yourself in
        how you performed. Later in the book we introduce a framework for
        tackling any coding interview question, and you can use the framework to
        evaluate how you performed during each step.

## How to use a practice problem

The worst possible way to solve a practice problem is to code it up in an
Integrated Development Environment (IDE) like Eclipse, Microsoft Visual Studio,
or Xcode, whilst searching on Stack Overflow for hints. You need to recreate the
exact environment and mindset of the interview process you expect to encounter.
Specifically, take the next problem and randomly do one the following:

-   A third of the time imagine that you're talking through the solution with a
    colleague on a piece of paper. Imagine, just like in real life, that you
    must talk through the problem at a high-level first in an understandable
    way, breaking it down into sub-problems, etc. Write your solution code on a
    piece of paper. Whatever is on the paper at the end must compile first-time
    when you type it out into an editor and run it.

-   Another third of the time type out your solution in a featureless editor,
    like Notepad on Windows, TextEdit on Mac OS X, or a website like CollabEdit.
    Whatever you type out must compile first-time, and if it doesn't figure out
    why and keep practicing with that in mind.

-   The last third of the time write out your answer on a whiteboard, imagining
    that you're in an interview and loudly talk to yourself. Everything you
    write must compile first-time when you type it into an editor. (You don't
    need a massive physical whiteboard, especially for home. Instead you could
    buy a [magic whiteboard](http://www.amazon.co.uk/Magic-Whiteboard-
    MAGICWHITE/dp/B001P5UAV8/) that can be stuck onto your wall).

## Interviews involve people

Interviewers are mostly evaluating your skill at communicating your thought
process and your solution to problems. Arriving at the solution is important but
secondary to communicating how you arrived at the solution, what other solutions
your rejected, and what tradeoffs the solution makes. During an interview you
are constantly being evaluated for your potential to succeed in general at the
company; your ability to eliminate ambiguity, explain complex ideas to others,
and how you behave when you encounter a problem you cannot immediately solve.

The best way to practice this type of communication is often at your day job.
Simply offering to give a talk on some complex area you're responsible for, or
more directly asking your colleagues or friends to give you mock interviews,
will give you the practice and confidence you need for real phone screens and
face to face interviews.
